W-16935769 beta traffic inspection monitoring duke (#305)
mulesoft/docs-monitoring: modules/ROOT/pages/_partials/include-traffic-inspection.adoc

//
//tag::traffic-inspection-overview[]
Intercept and inspect all HTTPS traffic through a proxy server that resides between your on-premises Mule apps and Anypoint Monitoring. To enable traffic inspection for your xref:runtime-manager::deployment-strategies.adoc#hybrid-deployments[hybrid deployments], you must install the latest Anypoint Monitoring agent.
//end::traffic-inspection-overview[]
//
//
//tag::traffic-inspection-limitations[]

At this time, the Anypoint Monitoring agent that supports traffic inspection is available for Mule instances running on _Linux_. 
//end::traffic-inspection-limitations[]
//
//

> //

Author: prereqs are below

> //

Author: @bin-shi-mulesoft The prerequisites are listed below

//
//tag::traffic-inspection-overview[]

> Intercept and inspect all HTTPS traffic through a proxy server that resides between your on-premises Mule apps and Anypoint Monitoring. To enable traffic inspection for your xref:runtime-manager::deployment-strategies.adoc#hybrid-deployments[hybrid deployments], you must install the latest Anypoint Monitoring agent.

Reviewer: Do we need to mention the version 3.x?

Author: @bin-shi-mulesoft 3.9 is in end of life support for on-prem.

Reviewer: What I mean is the Anypoint Monitoring agent 3.x. I think we may not need to mention as it is not released.

> Intercept and inspect all HTTPS traffic through a proxy server that resides between your on-premises Mule apps and Anypoint Monitoring. To enable traffic inspection for your xref:runtime-manager::deployment-strategies.adoc#hybrid-deployments[hybrid deployments], you must install the latest Anypoint Monitoring agent.

Author: ```suggestion
Intercept and inspect all HTTPS traffic through a proxy server that resides between your on-premises Mule apps and Anypoint Monitoring. To enable traffic inspection for your xref:runtime-manager::deployment-strategies.adoc#hybrid-deployments[hybrid deployments], you must install the 3.x version of Anypoint Monitoring agent.
```

//end::traffic-inspection-overview[]
//
//
//tag::traffic-inspection-limitations[]

> At this time, the Anypoint Monitoring agent that supports traffic inspection is available for Mule instances running on _Linux_. 

Reviewer: Red Hat Linux 7 and onwards.

> At this time, the Anypoint Monitoring agent that supports traffic inspection is available for Mule instances running on _Linux_. 

Author: ```suggestion
At this time, the Anypoint Monitoring agent that supports traffic inspection is available for Mule instances running on _Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) 7 and later_. 
```

Author: RHEL, right?

//end::traffic-inspection-limitations[]
//
//
//
//tag::traffic-inspection-prereqs[]

**  A closed beta version of the Anypoint Monitoring agent from a Salesforce representative
+

> The agent's zip file is available to a limited customer base.

Author: updated next bullet below, @bin-shi-mulesoft

> ** A Mule server that is registered in Runtime Manager 

Reviewer: The traffic inspection for the Runtime Management data has been enabled in your standalone mule instances.

> ** A Mule server that is registered in Runtime Manager 

Author: ```suggestion
** Traffic inspection is enabled for your on-premise Mule instances in Runtime Manager 
```

> ** Traffic inspection is enabled for your on-premise Mule instances in Runtime Manager 

Reviewer: Have your mule instances already enabled for traffic inspection.

Author: ```suggestion
** Traffic inspection is enabled for your on-premise Mule instances
```
We're saying that this is (one of the) prerequisites:

* Traffic inspection... 

As a matter of CX style guidelines, we avoid language like "Have your Mule instances..."

+

> To set up a Mule server, see xref:runtime-manager::rtm-traffic-inspection.adoc[].

Author: ```suggestion
For guidance, see xref:runtime-manager::rtm-traffic-inspection.adoc[].
```

+
In addition, you must add this private certificate or its CA certificate to the operating system's system-wide truststore. For guidance, see https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_enterprise_linux/8/html/securing_networks/using-shared-system-certificates_securing-networks#adding-new-certificates_using-shared-system-certificates[Adding new certificates] in the Redhat Linux documentation.
** Access to Anypoint Monitoring 
+
An Anypoint Platform administrator can provide access from Access Manager, in Anypoint Platform. For more information, see xref:monitoring::am-permissions.adoc[].

//** The Runtime Manager Agent must be installed. See xref:runtime-manager::runtime-manager-agent.adoc[].
// Perhaps if server is set up, it would be installed? Without it, I got this error: 
// NoSuchFileException: /Users/sduke/Downloads/mule-enterprise-standalone-4.8.0/conf/mule-agent.yml
//end::traffic-inspection-prereqs[]
//

//
//
//tag::traffic-inspection-procedure[]

To enable traffic inspection: 

> . If an Anypoint Monitoring agent is installed on your server, uninstall the agent and delete its `/am` subfolder:

Reviewer: an old version, `am`

Author: ```suggestion
. If an earlier version of Anypoint Monitoring agent is installed on your server, uninstall the agent and delete its `am` subfolder:
```

> .. From your Mule home directory (`MULE_HOME`), run the following command to uninstall the agent:

Reviewer: It is the `${AM_HOME}` directory when you unzip the AM.zip before, usually it is the `${MULE_HOME}/am`.

Author: ```suggestion
.. From your agent's home directory (`${AM_HOME}`, typically `${MULE_HOME}/am`), run this command to uninstall the agent:
```

> .. From your Mule home directory (`MULE_HOME`), run the following command to uninstall the agent:

Author: ```suggestion
.. From `AM_HOME` (`MULE_HOME/am`), run this command to uninstall the agent:
```

+
----
./bin/uninstall 
----

> .. Delete the `/am` subfolder from your Mule home directory.

Reviewer: `am`

Author: ```suggestion
.. Delete the `am` subfolder from your Mule home directory (`${MULE_HOME}`).
```

> . Place the Anypoint Monitoring agent zip file (`am-3.x.zip`) into your Mule home directory (`MULE_HOME`).

Author: ```suggestion
. Place the Anypoint Monitoring agent zip file (`am-3.x.zip`) into `${MULE_HOME}`.
```

+
The zip is available as part of the closed beta program. 

> . Extract the zip file to add the `/am` subfolder into your Mule home directory (`MULE_HOME`). 

Reviewer: Extract the zip file to the ${MULE_HOME} directory, and an `am` folder will be created there.

Author: ```suggestion
. Extract the zip file to add the `am` subfolder into your Mule home directory (`${MULE_HOME}`). 
```

. From the command line:

> .. Navigate to the `/am` subfolder, for example:

Reviewer: `am`

Author: ```suggestion
.. Navigate to the `am` subfolder, for example:
```

+
----
cd am
----
.. Install the agent to your Linux server:
+
----
./bin/install -p http:/proxy-server:port
----
+
Replace `+http:/proxy-server:port+` with the URI of your proxy server and port.
. Restart your server in Runtime Manager.
+
For guidance, see xref:runtime-manager::servers-actions.adoc[]

> . Return to your `/am` subfolder and run the setup script:

Reviewer: I think we can remove this line as the use is already in the `am` folder.

Author: ```suggestion
. From your `am` subfolder, run the setup script:
```

+
----
./bin/setup
----

> . After approximately five minutes, check for your server's metrics in Anypoint Monitoring, within the *Investigations* tab of the *Built-in Dashboard* page for your deployment. 
> +
> To troubleshoot issues, check the log files under `am/logs` in your Mule home directory.

Author: @bin-shi-mulesoft Does this last step not cover what's needed for validation and troubleshooting? 

Is the server not already deployed, or is that an extra step?
 
```suggestion
. After approximately five minutes, check for your server's metrics in Anypoint Monitoring, within the the *Built-in Dashboard* page for your deployment. 
+
For guidance, see xref:....
+
To troubleshoot issues, check the log files under `am/logs` in your Mule home directory.
```

//end::traffic-inspection-procedure[]
//

//
//tag::NOT-USED-YET[]

> . Open the *Hybrid* settings page in Anypoint Monitoring (https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/monitoring/#/settings/hybrid[US], https://eu1.anypoint.mulesoft.com/monitoring/#/settings/hybrid[EU]). 

Reviewer: Can you remove the EU link?

Reviewer: Also, can you include the "Validation" and "Troubleshooting" parts from the google doc? These are useful.

Author: We have the Troubleshooting but not as separate sections. It's in the steps. @bin-shi-mulesoft

//TODO_TODO_TODO: OTHER Questions
////
* if/how this differs from support for RTM? 
    * forward proxy? similar to "adds support to the Runtime Manager agent for a forward proxy that is deployed in your environment"
    * background info needed to understand how this fits into a bigger picture: "intercepting and inspecting all HTTPS traffic" (what does this mean exactly?) 
* prereqs similar (see RTM doc) -- do any of the tasks and prereqs in https://beta.docs.mulesoft.com/beta-traffic-inspection/runtime-manager/rtm-traffic-inspection apply also to Monitoring 
    * Build an HTTP proxy with support for TLS connections?
    * Provision this inspection proxy to send a customer-private certificate to ... agent? 

> ////

Author: ```suggestion
```

//end::traffic-inspection-prereqs[]
//

//
//
//tag::traffic-inspection-procedure[]

To enable traffic inspection: 

. If an earlier version of Anypoint Monitoring agent is installed on your server, uninstall the agent and delete its `am` subfolder:

.. From your agent's home directory (`${AM_HOME}`, typically `${MULE_HOME}/am`), run this command to uninstall the agent:
+
----
./bin/uninstall 
----
.. Delete the `am` subfolder from your Mule home directory (`${MULE_HOME}`).
. Place the Anypoint Monitoring agent zip file (`am-3.x.zip`) into `${MULE_HOME}`.
+
The zip is available as part of the closed beta program. 
. Extract the zip file to add the `am` subfolder into your Mule home directory (`${MULE_HOME}`). 
. From the command line:
.. Navigate to the `am` subfolder, for example:
+
----
cd am
----
.. Install the agent to your Linux server:
+
----
./bin/install -p http:/proxy-server:port
----
+
Replace `+http:/proxy-server:port+` with the URI of your proxy server and port.
. Restart your server in Runtime Manager.
+
For guidance, see xref:runtime-manager::servers-actions.adoc[]
. From your `am` subfolder, run the setup script:
+
----
./bin/setup

> ----

Author: updated step below, @bin-shi-mulesoft

. After approximately five minutes, check for your Mule app's metrics in Anypoint Monitoring:
+
From https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/monitoring/#/builtin[Anypoint Monitoring] (requires login), select your *Environment* (such as Sandbox or Production) and the *Resource name* of your hybrid Mule app to display the app's monitoring data.
+
To troubleshoot issues, check the log files under `am/logs` in your Mule home directory.

//end::traffic-inspection-procedure[]
//

> //

Author: ignore this content in tag::NOT-USED-YET[]
